VBRSGen will attempt to transform any valid Microsoft Access database table or query into a properly formatted block of code to create a Recordset, including creating and initializing variables for ADO or DAO data access types. Because of the huge variety of possible SQL statements, it's almost impossible for the program to accurately parse every clause exactly as you might expect, so always test the code and "tweak" it by hand, if necessary, to ensure that it provides the results you need.
You can select Microsoft Active Data Objects (ADO) or Data Access Objects (DAO) as your data access model, simply select the proper one from the check box or the Options menu.
VBRSGen will create a connection string to the database you select, but if you need to allow users of your program to find a database in a different path, be sure to change the VB code accordingly.
VBRSGen can create VB code to open an ODBC connection to your Access database using Jet (DAO) or ADO, but to run the code in your project, you MUST set the appropriate reference(s) in your VB IDE. Select Project > References from the VB menu and click on Microsoft Data Access Objects (DAO) or Microsoft Active Data Objects (ADO), as required. If there selections are not available, you may need to download and install the latest release of Microsoft Data Access Components (MDAC). You can download a file called mdac_typ.exe from http://www.microsoft.com/data/download.htm
To use VBRSGen, select Add-Ins > BB SQL Generator from the Visual Basic menu. Then on the main screen, select an Access database file (.mdb). Click on one of the options, Tables or Queries, and then choose the object you want to use from the list. You have 2 choices: (1) If you select a Query, you can then press the Format SQL button to go straight to the SQL generation screen. (2) If you choose a Table, the next thing to do is select the Fields you want to include (hold down Ctrl while clicking with the mouse to select multiple fields). On the next screen you'll see the fields you selected, and if you want to create query criteria, select a field and then a logical operator (ie, =, >=, <>, etc) followed by a value. You may add further criteria by clicking AND or OR and then selecting another field, logical operator, value, etc. When you're done creating the criteria, click OK and you'll come to the code generation screen. At the code generation screen, you simply pick any options you want to set, and then press Generate Code to have the VB code created in the box below. Choose the output option you prefer and then press OK to copy the code to the Clipboard or into a text file in Notepad, which you can then paste into your project (or save as a text file).